#summary Example of Groovies delegate keyword.

= The delegate keyword =
The `delegate` keyword is only available in closures! Take a look at the following example file `DelegateExample.groovy`:
{{{
def clos = {
    println 'this: ' + this.class.name
    println 'delegate: ' + delegate.class.name
    return delegate.class.name
}

assert 'DelegateExample' == clos()
clos.delegate = new Integer(100)
assert 'java.lang.Integer' == clos()
}}}

This piece of code prints out the following statements:
{{{
this: DelegateExample
delegate: DelegateExample
this: DelegateExample
delegate: java.lang.Integer
}}}

Per default `delegate` references the same object as `this`. But you have the possibility to change the value `delegate` instead of `this`.

= ResolverStrategy =
The ResolverStrategy defines the lookup mechanism to find methods and properties of a closure. Example:
{{{
class AnExample {
    def clos = {
        add(1, 2)
    }

    def add(a, b) {
        a + b
    }
}

def e = new AnExample()
assert e.clos() == 3
}}}
In this case the closure calls the add method of the closure´s owner. The so called OWNER_FIRST strategy. Another opportunity would by to set the resolver strategy to DELEGATE_FIRST. Then the delegate would be the first object to search for the method add. Example:
{{{
class AnExample {
    def clos = {
        add(1, 2)
    }
}

class AnotherClass {
    def add(a, b) {
        a + b
    }
}

def e = new AnExample()
def f = new AnotherClass()

e.clos.delegate = f
assert e.clos() == 3
}}}
Here the method add of the AnotherClass would be called.

= Advanced explanations =
This [http://naleid.com/blog/2009/06/25/groovy-closures-make-unit-testing-with-soft-asserts-simple article] gives interesting informations about closures and delegate.